---
layout: post
title: Extra readings - Agent Guardrailing    
lecture: 
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: Extra readings 
video: instructor   
tags:
- Safety
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- Reasoning
---




In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 


#### AgentDojo: A Dynamic Environment to Evaluate Prompt Injection Attacks and Defenses for LLM Agents
+ [Submitted on 19 Jun 2024 (v1), last revised 24 Nov 2024 (this version, v3)]
+ Edoardo Debenedetti, Jie Zhang, Mislav Balunović, Luca Beurer-Kellner, Marc Fischer, Florian Tramèr
+ AI agents aim to solve complex tasks by combining text-based reasoning with external tool calls. Unfortunately, AI agents are vulnerable to prompt injection attacks where data returned by external tools hijacks the agent to execute malicious tasks. To measure the adversarial robustness of AI agents, we introduce AgentDojo, an evaluation framework for agents that execute tools over untrusted data. To capture the evolving nature of attacks and defenses, AgentDojo is not a static test suite, but rather an extensible environment for designing and evaluating new agent tasks, defenses, and adaptive attacks. We populate the environment with 97 realistic tasks (e.g., managing an email client, navigating an e-banking website, or making travel bookings), 629 security test cases, and various attack and defense paradigms from the literature. We find that AgentDojo poses a challenge for both attacks and defenses: state-of-the-art LLMs fail at many tasks (even in the absence of attacks), and existing prompt injection attacks break some security properties but not all. We hope that AgentDojo can foster research on new design principles for AI agents that solve common tasks in a reliable and robust manner.. We release the code for AgentDojo at this https URL.



#### SafeRAG: Benchmarking Security in Retrieval-Augmented Generation of Large Language Model
+ [Submitted on 28 Jan 2025 (v1), last revised 23 Feb 2025 (this version, v2)]
+ Xun Liang, Simin Niu, Zhiyu Li, Sensen Zhang, Hanyu Wang, Feiyu Xiong, Jason Zhaoxin Fan, Bo Tang, Shichao Song, Mengwei Wang, Jiawei Yang
+ The indexing-retrieval-generation paradigm of retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has been highly successful in solving knowledge-intensive tasks by integrating external knowledge into large language models (LLMs). However, the incorporation of external and unverified knowledge increases the vulnerability of LLMs because attackers can perform attack tasks by manipulating knowledge. In this paper, we introduce a benchmark named SafeRAG designed to evaluate the RAG security. First, we classify attack tasks into silver noise, inter-context conflict, soft ad, and white Denial-of-Service. Next, we construct RAG security evaluation dataset (i.e., SafeRAG dataset) primarily manually for each task. We then utilize the SafeRAG dataset to simulate various attack scenarios that RAG may encounter. Experiments conducted on 14 representative RAG components demonstrate that RAG exhibits significant vulnerability to all attack tasks and even the most apparent attack task can easily bypass existing retrievers, filters, or advanced LLMs, resulting in the degradation of RAG service quality. Code is available at: this https URL.


#### AgentMonitor: A Plug-and-Play Framework for Predictive and Secure Multi-Agent Systems
+ Chi-Min Chan, Jianxuan Yu, Weize Chen, Chunyang Jiang, Xinyu Liu, Weijie Shi, Zhiyuan Liu, Wei Xue, Yike Guo
+ The rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs) has led to the rise of LLM-based agents. Recent research shows that multi-agent systems (MAS), where each agent plays a specific role, can outperform individual LLMs. However, configuring an MAS for a task remains challenging, with performance only observable post-execution. Inspired by scaling laws in LLM development, we investigate whether MAS performance can be predicted beforehand. We introduce AgentMonitor, a framework that integrates at the agent level to capture inputs and outputs, transforming them into statistics for training a regression model to predict task performance. Additionally, it can further apply real-time corrections to address security risks posed by malicious agents, mitigating negative impacts and enhancing MAS security. Experiments demonstrate that an XGBoost model achieves a Spearman correlation of 0.89 in-domain and 0.58 in more challenging scenarios. Furthermore, using AgentMonitor reduces harmful content by 6.2% and increases helpful content by 1.8% on average, enhancing safety and reliability. Code is available at \url{this https URL}.



## More Readings: 


#### Agents for Software Development
+ https://www.phontron.com/slides/neubig24softwareagents.pdf


#### Identifying the Risks of LM Agents with an LM-Emulated Sandbox
+ Yangjun Ruan, Honghua Dong, Andrew Wang, Silviu Pitis, Yongchao Zhou, Jimmy Ba, Yann Dubois, Chris J. Maddison, Tatsunori Hashimoto
+ Recent advances in Language Model (LM) agents and tool use, exemplified by applications like ChatGPT Plugins, enable a rich set of capabilities but also amplify potential risks - such as leaking private data or causing financial losses. Identifying these risks is labor-intensive, necessitating implementing the tools, setting up the environment for each test scenario manually, and finding risky cases. As tools and agents become more complex, the high cost of testing these agents will make it increasingly difficult to find high-stakes, long-tailed risks. To address these challenges, we introduce ToolEmu: a framework that uses an LM to emulate tool execution and enables the testing of LM agents against a diverse range of tools and scenarios, without manual instantiation. Alongside the emulator, we develop an LM-based automatic safety evaluator that examines agent failures and quantifies associated risks. We test both the tool emulator and evaluator through human evaluation and find that 68.8% of failures identified with ToolEmu would be valid real-world agent failures. Using our curated initial benchmark consisting of 36 high-stakes tools and 144 test cases, we provide a quantitative risk analysis of current LM agents and identify numerous failures with potentially severe outcomes. Notably, even the safest LM agent exhibits such failures 23.9% of the time according to our evaluator, underscoring the need to develop safer LM agents for real-world deployment.


#### Building Safe GenAI Applications: An End-to-End Overview of Red Teaming for Large Language Models
+ [Submitted on 3 Mar 2025 (v1), last revised 5 Mar 2025 (this version, v2)]
+ Alberto Purpura, Sahil Wadhwa, Jesse Zymet, Akshay Gupta, Andy Luo, Melissa Kazemi Rad, Swapnil Shinde, Mohammad Shahed Sorower
+ The rapid growth of Large Language Models (LLMs) presents significant privacy, security, and ethical concerns. While much research has proposed methods for defending LLM systems against misuse by malicious actors, researchers have recently complemented these efforts with an offensive approach that involves red teaming, i.e., proactively attacking LLMs with the purpose of identifying their vulnerabilities. This paper provides a concise and practical overview of the LLM red teaming literature, structured so as to describe a multi-component system end-to-end. To motivate red teaming we survey the initial safety needs of some high-profile LLMs, and then dive into the different components of a red teaming system as well as software packages for implementing them. We cover various attack methods, strategies for attack-success evaluation, metrics for assessing experiment outcomes, as well as a host of other considerations. Our survey will be useful for any reader who wants to rapidly obtain a grasp of the major red teaming concepts for their own use in practical applications.



#### Safeguarding Large Language Models: A Survey
+ [Submitted on 3 Jun 2024]
+ Yi Dong, Ronghui Mu, Yanghao Zhang, Siqi Sun, Tianle Zhang, Changshun Wu, Gaojie Jin, Yi Qi, Jinwei Hu, Jie Meng, Saddek Bensalem, Xiaowei Huang
+ In the burgeoning field of Large Language Models (LLMs), developing a robust safety mechanism, colloquially known as "safeguards" or "guardrails", has become imperative to ensure the ethical use of LLMs within prescribed boundaries. This article provides a systematic literature review on the current status of this critical mechanism. It discusses its major challenges and how it can be enhanced into a comprehensive mechanism dealing with ethical issues in various contexts. First, the paper elucidates the current landscape of safeguarding mechanisms that major LLM service providers and the open-source community employ. This is followed by the techniques to evaluate, analyze, and enhance some (un)desirable properties that a guardrail might want to enforce, such as hallucinations, fairness, privacy, and so on. Based on them, we review techniques to circumvent these controls (i.e., attacks), to defend the attacks, and to reinforce the guardrails. While the techniques mentioned above represent the current status and the active research trends, we also discuss several challenges that cannot be easily dealt with by the methods and present our vision on how to implement a comprehensive guardrail through the full consideration of multi-disciplinary approach, neural-symbolic method, and systems development lifecycle.

