---
layout: post
title: Platform - Context construction via RAG and Agent
lecture: W5.2.Team6-RAGagent
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: Introduction of agent and aentic RAG
video: team-6
tags:
- RAG
- Agent
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- Platform
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 



#### ReAct: Synergizing Reasoning and Acting in Language Models
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.03629
+ Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, Yuan Cao
+ [Submitted on 6 Oct 2022 (v1), last revised 10 Mar 2023 (this version, v3)]
+ While large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities across tasks in language understanding and interactive decision making, their abilities for reasoning (e.g. chain-of-thought prompting) and acting (e.g. action plan generation) have primarily been studied as separate topics. In this paper, we explore the use of LLMs to generate both reasoning traces and task-specific actions in an interleaved manner, allowing for greater synergy between the two: reasoning traces help the model induce, track, and update action plans as well as handle exceptions, while actions allow it to interface with external sources, such as knowledge bases or environments, to gather additional information. We apply our approach, named ReAct, to a diverse set of language and decision making tasks and demonstrate its effectiveness over state-of-the-art baselines, as well as improved human interpretability and trustworthiness over methods without reasoning or acting components. Concretely, on question answering (HotpotQA) and fact verification (Fever), ReAct overcomes issues of hallucination and error propagation prevalent in chain-of-thought reasoning by interacting with a simple Wikipedia API, and generates human-like task-solving trajectories that are more interpretable than baselines without reasoning traces. On two interactive decision making benchmarks (ALFWorld and WebShop), ReAct outperforms imitation and reinforcement learning methods by an absolute success rate of 34% and 10% respectively, while being prompted with only one or two in-context examples. Project site with code: this https URL




#### Agent white paper 
+ [https://www.kaggle.com/whitepaper-agents](https://www.kaggle.com/whitepaper-agents)
+  Google recently published a whitepaper on AI Agents that everyone should read. It covers everything you need to know about this new wave.
	- Introduction to AI Agents
	- The role of tools in Agents
	- Enhancing model performance with targeted learning
	- Quick start to Agents with LangChain
	- Production applications with Vertex AI Agents




#### Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation: A Survey on Agentic RAG
+ [Submitted on 15 Jan 2025]
+ Aditi Singh, Abul Ehtesham, Saket Kumar, Tala Talaei Khoei
+ Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized artificial intelligence (AI) by enabling human like text generation and natural language understanding. However, their reliance on static training data limits their ability to respond to dynamic, real time queries, resulting in outdated or inaccurate outputs. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a solution, enhancing LLMs by integrating real time data retrieval to provide contextually relevant and up-to-date responses. Despite its promise, traditional RAG systems are constrained by static workflows and lack the adaptability required for multistep reasoning and complex task management. Agentic Retrieval-Augmented Generation (Agentic RAG) transcends these limitations by embedding autonomous AI agents into the RAG pipeline. These agents leverage agentic design patterns reflection, planning, tool use, and multiagent collaboration to dynamically manage retrieval strategies, iteratively refine contextual understanding, and adapt workflows to meet complex task requirements. This integration enables Agentic RAG systems to deliver unparalleled flexibility, scalability, and context awareness across diverse applications.
This survey provides a comprehensive exploration of Agentic RAG, beginning with its foundational principles and the evolution of RAG paradigms. It presents a detailed taxonomy of Agentic RAG architectures, highlights key applications in industries such as healthcare, finance, and education, and examines practical implementation strategies. Additionally, it addresses challenges in scaling these systems, ensuring ethical decision making, and optimizing performance for real-world applications, while providing detailed insights into frameworks and tools for implementing Agentic RAG
   


## More Readings: 


