---
layout: post
title: Agent - multiagent collaboration 
lecture: W11.1.Team5-agent
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: 
video: team-5
tags:
- Multiagent
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- Agent 
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 


#### GUI Agents: A Survey
+ [Submitted on 18 Dec 2024]
+ Dang Nguyen, Jian Chen, Yu Wang, Gang Wu, Namyong Park, Zhengmian Hu, Hanjia Lyu, Junda Wu, Ryan Aponte, Yu Xia, Xintong Li, Jing Shi, Hongjie Chen, Viet Dac Lai, Zhouhang Xie, Sungchul Kim, Ruiyi Zhang, Tong Yu, Mehrab Tanjim, Nesreen K. Ahmed, Puneet Mathur, Seunghyun Yoon, Lina Yao, Branislav Kveton, Thien Huu Nguyen, Trung Bui, Tianyi Zhou, Ryan A. Rossi, Franck Dernoncourt
+ Graphical User Interface (GUI) agents, powered by Large Foundation Models, have emerged as a transformative approach to automating human-computer interaction. These agents autonomously interact with digital systems or software applications via GUIs, emulating human actions such as clicking, typing, and navigating visual elements across diverse platforms. Motivated by the growing interest and fundamental importance of GUI agents, we provide a comprehensive survey that categorizes their benchmarks, evaluation metrics, architectures, and training methods. We propose a unified framework that delineates their perception, reasoning, planning, and acting capabilities. Furthermore, we identify important open challenges and discuss key future directions. Finally, this work serves as a basis for practitioners and researchers to gain an intuitive understanding of current progress, techniques, benchmarks, and critical open problems that remain to be addressed.
  

##### OmniParser v2: Advanced vision-based screen parsing for precisely grounded UI actions
+ OmniParser is a comprehensive method for parsing user interface screenshots into structured and easy-to-understand elements, which significantly enhances the ability of GPT-4V to generate actions that can be accurately grounded in the corresponding regions of the interface.




#### Multi-Agent Collaboration Mechanisms: A Survey of LLMs
Khanh-Tung Tran, Dung Dao, Minh-Duong Nguyen, Quoc-Viet Pham, Barry O'Sullivan, Hoang D. Nguyen
With recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs), Agentic AI has become phenomenal in real-world applications, moving toward multiple LLM-based agents to perceive, learn, reason, and act collaboratively. These LLM-based Multi-Agent Systems (MASs) enable groups of intelligent agents to coordinate and solve complex tasks collectively at scale, transitioning from isolated models to collaboration-centric approaches. This work provides an extensive survey of the collaborative aspect of MASs and introduces an extensible framework to guide future research. Our framework characterizes collaboration mechanisms based on key dimensions: actors (agents involved), types (e.g., cooperation, competition, or coopetition), structures (e.g., peer-to-peer, centralized, or distributed), strategies (e.g., role-based or model-based), and coordination protocols. Through a review of existing methodologies, our findings serve as a foundation for demystifying and advancing LLM-based MASs toward more intelligent and collaborative solutions for complex, real-world use cases. In addition, various applications of MASs across diverse domains, including 5G/6G networks, Industry 5.0, question answering, and social and cultural settings, are also investigated, demonstrating their wider adoption and broader impacts. Finally, we identify key lessons learned, open challenges, and potential research directions of MASs towards artificial collective intelligence.



##### Magentic-One: A generalist multi-agent system built on AutoGen
+ Magentic-One employs a multi-agent architecture where a lead agent, the Orchestrator, directs four other agents to solve tasks. The Orchestrator plans, tracks progress, and re-plans to recover from errors, while directing specialized agents to perform tasks like operating a web browser, navigating local files, or writing and executing Python code.
+ Magentic-One achieves statistically competitive performance to the state-of-the-art on multiple challenging agentic benchmarks, without requiring modifications to its core capabilities or architecture. Built on AutoGen(opens in new tab), our popular open-source multi-agent framework, Magentic-One’s modular, multi-agent design offers numerous advantages over monolithic single-agent systems. By encapsulating distinct skills in separate agents, it simplifies development and reuse, similar to object-oriented programming. Magentic-One’s plug-and-play design further supports easy adaptation and extensibility by enabling agents to be added or removed without needing to rework the entire system—unlike single-agent systems, which often struggle with inflexible workflows.



#### Agent-as-a-Judge: Evaluate Agents with Agents
+ [Submitted on 14 Oct 2024 (v1), last revised 16 Oct 2024 (this version, v2)]
+ Mingchen Zhuge, Changsheng Zhao, Dylan Ashley, Wenyi Wang, Dmitrii Khizbullin, Yunyang Xiong, Zechun Liu, Ernie Chang, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi, Yuandong Tian, Yangyang Shi, Vikas Chandra, Jürgen Schmidhuber
+ Contemporary evaluation techniques are inadequate for agentic systems. These approaches either focus exclusively on final outcomes -- ignoring the step-by-step nature of agentic systems, or require excessive manual labour. To address this, we introduce the Agent-as-a-Judge framework, wherein agentic systems are used to evaluate agentic systems. This is an organic extension of the LLM-as-a-Judge framework, incorporating agentic features that enable intermediate feedback for the entire task-solving process. We apply the Agent-as-a-Judge to the task of code generation. To overcome issues with existing benchmarks and provide a proof-of-concept testbed for Agent-as-a-Judge, we present DevAI, a new benchmark of 55 realistic automated AI development tasks. It includes rich manual annotations, like a total of 365 hierarchical user requirements. We benchmark three of the popular agentic systems using Agent-as-a-Judge and find it dramatically outperforms LLM-as-a-Judge and is as reliable as our human evaluation baseline. Altogether, we believe that Agent-as-a-Judge marks a concrete step forward for modern agentic systems -- by providing rich and reliable reward signals necessary for dynamic and scalable self-improvement.
Comments:	The project can be found at this https URL. The dataset is released at this https URL



## More Readings: 



#### A Survey on Large Language Model based Autonomous Agents
+ [Submitted on 22 Aug 2023 (v1), last revised 15 Dec 2024 (this version, v6)]
+ [URL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.11432)
+ Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Wayne Xin Zhao, Zhewei Wei, Ji-Rong Wen
+ Autonomous agents have long been a prominent research focus in both academic and industry communities. Previous research in this field often focuses on training agents with limited knowledge within isolated environments, which diverges significantly from human learning processes, and thus makes the agents hard to achieve human-like decisions. Recently, through the acquisition of vast amounts of web knowledge, large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable potential in achieving human-level intelligence. This has sparked an upsurge in studies investigating LLM-based autonomous agents. In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey of these studies, delivering a systematic review of the field of LLM-based autonomous agents from a holistic perspective. More specifically, we first discuss the construction of LLM-based autonomous agents, for which we propose a unified framework that encompasses a majority of the previous work. Then, we present a comprehensive overview of the diverse applications of LLM-based autonomous agents in the fields of social science, natural science, and engineering. Finally, we delve into the evaluation strategies commonly used for LLM-based autonomous agents. Based on the previous studies, we also present several challenges and future directions in this field. To keep track of this field and continuously update our survey, we maintain a repository of relevant references at this https URL.
Comments:	change several 35 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables



#### Deploying Foundation Model Powered Agent Services: A Survey
+ Wenchao Xu, Jinyu Chen, Peirong Zheng, Xiaoquan Yi, Tianyi Tian, Wenhui Zhu, Quan Wan, Haozhao Wang, Yunfeng Fan, Qinliang Su, Xuemin Shen
+ [Submitted on 18 Dec 2024]
+ Foundation model (FM) powered agent services are regarded as a promising solution to develop intelligent and personalized applications for advancing toward Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). To achieve high reliability and scalability in deploying these agent services, it is essential to collaboratively optimize computational and communication resources, thereby ensuring effective resource allocation and seamless service delivery. In pursuit of this vision, this paper proposes a unified framework aimed at providing a comprehensive survey on deploying FM-based agent services across heterogeneous devices, with the emphasis on the integration of model and resource optimization to establish a robust infrastructure for these services. Particularly, this paper begins with exploring various low-level optimization strategies during inference and studies approaches that enhance system scalability, such as parallelism techniques and resource scaling methods. The paper then discusses several prominent FMs and investigates research efforts focused on inference acceleration, including techniques such as model compression and token reduction. Moreover, the paper also investigates critical components for constructing agent services and highlights notable intelligent applications. Finally, the paper presents potential research directions for developing real-time agent services with high Quality of Service (QoS).



