---
title: Model Interpretibility for FM 
lecture: W13.2-GenAI-Interpretability
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: 
video: team-4
tags:
- Safety
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- FMBasic
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 



#### Open Problems in Mechanistic Interpretability
+ [Submitted on 27 Jan 2025]
+ Lee Sharkey, Bilal Chughtai, Joshua Batson, Jack Lindsey, Jeff Wu, Lucius Bushnaq, Nicholas Goldowsky-Dill, Stefan Heimersheim, Alejandro Ortega, Joseph Bloom, Stella Biderman, Adria Garriga-Alonso, Arthur Conmy, Neel Nanda, Jessica Rumbelow, Martin Wattenberg, Nandi Schoots, Joseph Miller, Eric J. Michaud, Stephen Casper, Max Tegmark, William Saunders, David Bau, Eric Todd, Atticus Geiger, Mor Geva, Jesse Hoogland, Daniel Murfet, Tom McGrath
+ Mechanistic interpretability aims to understand the computational mechanisms underlying neural networks' capabilities in order to accomplish concrete scientific and engineering goals. Progress in this field thus promises to provide greater assurance over AI system behavior and shed light on exciting scientific questions about the nature of intelligence. Despite recent progress toward these goals, there are many open problems in the field that require solutions before many scientific and practical benefits can be realized: Our methods require both conceptual and practical improvements to reveal deeper insights; we must figure out how best to apply our methods in pursuit of specific goals; and the field must grapple with socio-technical challenges that influence and are influenced by our work. This forward-facing review discusses the current frontier of mechanistic interpretability and the open problems that the field may benefit from prioritizing.



#### Position-aware Automatic Circuit Discovery
+ Tal Haklay, Hadas Orgad, David Bau, Aaron Mueller, Yonatan Belinkov
+ A widely used strategy to discover and understand language model mechanisms is circuit analysis. A circuit is a minimal subgraph of a model's computation graph that executes a specific task. We identify a gap in existing circuit discovery methods: they assume circuits are position-invariant, treating model components as equally relevant across input positions. This limits their ability to capture cross-positional interactions or mechanisms that vary across positions. To address this gap, we propose two improvements to incorporate positionality into circuits, even on tasks containing variable-length examples. First, we extend edge attribution patching, a gradient-based method for circuit discovery, to differentiate between token positions. Second, we introduce the concept of a dataset schema, which defines token spans with similar semantics across examples, enabling position-aware circuit discovery in datasets with variable length examples. We additionally develop an automated pipeline for schema generation and application using large language models. Our approach enables fully automated discovery of position-sensitive circuits, yielding better trade-offs between circuit size and faithfulness compared to prior work.



## More Readings: 


#### Mechanistic Interpretability for AI Safety -- A Review
+ [Submitted on 22 Apr 2024 (v1), last revised 23 Aug 2024 (this version, v3)]
+ Leonard Bereska, Efstratios Gavves
+ Understanding AI systems' inner workings is critical for ensuring value alignment and safety. This review explores mechanistic interpretability: reverse engineering the computational mechanisms and representations learned by neural networks into human-understandable algorithms and concepts to provide a granular, causal understanding. We establish foundational concepts such as features encoding knowledge within neural activations and hypotheses about their representation and computation. We survey methodologies for causally dissecting model behaviors and assess the relevance of mechanistic interpretability to AI safety. We examine benefits in understanding, control, alignment, and risks such as capability gains and dual-use concerns. We investigate challenges surrounding scalability, automation, and comprehensive interpretation. We advocate for clarifying concepts, setting standards, and scaling techniques to handle complex models and behaviors and expand to domains such as vision and reinforcement learning. Mechanistic interpretability could help prevent catastrophic outcomes as AI systems become more powerful and inscrutable.
Comments:	Accepted to TMLR; for an HTML version, visit this https URL

#### Linearity of Relation Decoding in Transformer Language Models
+ Evan Hernandez, Arnab Sen Sharma, Tal Haklay, Kevin Meng, Martin Wattenberg, Jacob Andreas, Yonatan Belinkov, David Bau
+ Much of the knowledge encoded in transformer language models (LMs) may be expressed in terms of relations: relations between words and their synonyms, entities and their attributes, etc. We show that, for a subset of relations, this computation is well-approximated by a single linear transformation on the subject representation. Linear relation representations may be obtained by constructing a first-order approximation to the LM from a single prompt, and they exist for a variety of factual, commonsense, and linguistic relations. However, we also identify many cases in which LM predictions capture relational knowledge accurately, but this knowledge is not linearly encoded in their representations. Our results thus reveal a simple, interpretable, but heterogeneously deployed knowledge representation strategy in transformer LMs.





#### Claude’s extended thinking
+ https://www.anthropic.com/news/visible-extended-thinking


#### Mapping the Mind of a Large Language Model
+ [https://www.anthropic.com/research/mapping-mind-language-model](https://www.anthropic.com/research/mapping-mind-language-model)
  

#### Using Dictionary Learning Features as Classifiers
+ [https://transformer-circuits.pub/2024/features-as-classifiers/index.html](https://transformer-circuits.pub/2024/features-as-classifiers/index.html)


#### Jailbreaking LLM-Controlled Robots
+ [Submitted on 17 Oct 2024 (v1), last revised 9 Nov 2024 (this version, v2)]
+ Alexander Robey, Zachary Ravichandran, Vijay Kumar, Hamed Hassani, George J. Pappas
+ The recent introduction of large language models (LLMs) has revolutionized the field of robotics by enabling contextual reasoning and intuitive human-robot interaction in domains as varied as manipulation, locomotion, and self-driving vehicles. When viewed as a stand-alone technology, LLMs are known to be vulnerable to jailbreaking attacks, wherein malicious prompters elicit harmful text by bypassing LLM safety guardrails. To assess the risks of deploying LLMs in robotics, in this paper, we introduce RoboPAIR, the first algorithm designed to jailbreak LLM-controlled robots. Unlike existing, textual attacks on LLM chatbots, RoboPAIR elicits harmful physical actions from LLM-controlled robots, a phenomenon we experimentally demonstrate in three scenarios: (i) a white-box setting, wherein the attacker has full access to the NVIDIA Dolphins self-driving LLM, (ii) a gray-box setting, wherein the attacker has partial access to a Clearpath Robotics Jackal UGV robot equipped with a GPT-4o planner, and (iii) a black-box setting, wherein the attacker has only query access to the GPT-3.5-integrated Unitree Robotics Go2 robot dog. In each scenario and across three new datasets of harmful robotic actions, we demonstrate that RoboPAIR, as well as several static baselines, finds jailbreaks quickly and effectively, often achieving 100% attack success rates. Our results reveal, for the first time, that the risks of jailbroken LLMs extend far beyond text generation, given the distinct possibility that jailbroken robots could cause physical damage in the real world. Indeed, our results on the Unitree Go2 represent the first successful jailbreak of a deployed commercial robotic system. Addressing this emerging vulnerability is critical for ensuring the safe deployment of LLMs in robotics. Additional media is available at: this https URL


#### Model Tampering Attacks Enable More Rigorous Evaluations of LLM Capabilities
+ Zora Che, Stephen Casper, Robert Kirk, Anirudh Satheesh, Stewart Slocum, Lev E McKinney, Rohit Gandikota, Aidan Ewart, Domenic Rosati, Zichu Wu, Zikui Cai, Bilal Chughtai, Yarin Gal, Furong Huang, Dylan Hadfield-Menell
+ Evaluations of large language model (LLM) risks and capabilities are increasingly being incorporated into AI risk management and governance frameworks. Currently, most risk evaluations are conducted by designing inputs that elicit harmful behaviors from the system. However, a fundamental limitation of this approach is that the harmfulness of the behaviors identified during any particular evaluation can only lower bound the model's worst-possible-case behavior. As a complementary method for eliciting harmful behaviors, we propose evaluating LLMs with model tampering attacks which allow for modifications to latent activations or weights. We pit state-of-the-art techniques for removing harmful LLM capabilities against a suite of 5 input-space and 6 model tampering attacks. In addition to benchmarking these methods against each other, we show that (1) model resilience to capability elicitation attacks lies on a low-dimensional robustness subspace; (2) the attack success rate of model tampering attacks can empirically predict and offer conservative estimates for the success of held-out input-space attacks; and (3) state-of-the-art unlearning methods can easily be undone within 16 steps of fine-tuning. Together these results highlight the difficulty of removing harmful LLM capabilities and show that model tampering attacks enable substantially more rigorous evaluations than input-space attacks alone. We release models at this https URL

