---
title: advanced LLM - for code reasoning    
lecture: W4.1-Gen AI-code
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: deepSeek code and more LLM4code
video: team-2
tags:
- Reasoning
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- Reasoning
- FMAdapt
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 



#### Agent for software engineering
+ https://www.phontron.com/slides/neubig24softwareagents.pdf


#### Language Models for Code Optimization: Survey, Challenges and Future Directions
+ [https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01277](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01277)
+ [Submitted on 2 Jan 2025 (v1), last revised 3 Jan 2025 (this version, v2)]
+ Jingzhi Gong, Vardan Voskanyan, Paul Brookes, Fan Wu, Wei Jie, Jie Xu, Rafail Giavrimis, Mike Basios, Leslie Kanthan, Zheng Wang
+ Language models (LMs) built upon deep neural networks (DNNs) have recently demonstrated breakthrough effectiveness in software engineering tasks such as code generation, completion, and repair. This has paved the way for the emergence of LM-based code optimization techniques, which are crucial for enhancing the performance of existing programs, such as accelerating program execution time. However, a comprehensive survey dedicated to this specific application has been lacking. To fill this gap, we present a systematic literature review of over 50 primary studies, identifying emerging trends and addressing 11 specialized questions. Our findings reveal five critical open challenges, such as balancing model complexity with practical usability, cross-language/performance generalizability, and building trust in AI-driven solutions. Furthermore, we provide eight future research directions to facilitate more efficient, robust, and reliable LM-based code optimization. Thereby, this study aims to provide actionable insights and foundational references for both researchers and practitioners in this rapidly evolving field.





#### DeepSeek-Coder-V2: Breaking the Barrier of Closed-Source Models in Code Intelligence
+ [https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11931](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11931)
+ DeepSeek-AI, Qihao Zhu, Daya Guo, Zhihong Shao, Dejian Yang, Peiyi Wang, Runxin Xu, Y. Wu, + Yukun Li, Huazuo Gao, Shirong Ma, Wangding Zeng, Xiao Bi, Zihui Gu, Hanwei Xu, Damai Dai, Kai Dong, Liyue Zhang, Yishi Piao, Zhibin Gou, Zhenda Xie, Zhewen Hao, Bingxuan Wang, Junxiao Song, Deli Chen, Xin Xie, Kang Guan, Yuxiang You, Aixin Liu, Qiushi Du, Wenjun Gao, Xuan Lu, Qinyu Chen, Yaohui Wang, Chengqi Deng, Jiashi Li, Chenggang Zhao, Chong Ruan, Fuli Luo, Wenfeng Liang
+ We present DeepSeek-Coder-V2, an open-source Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) code language model that achieves performance comparable to GPT4-Turbo in code-specific tasks. Specifically, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 is further pre-trained from an intermediate checkpoint of DeepSeek-V2 with additional 6 trillion tokens. Through this continued pre-training, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 substantially enhances the coding and mathematical reasoning capabilities of DeepSeek-V2, while maintaining comparable performance in general language tasks. Compared to DeepSeek-Coder-33B, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 demonstrates significant advancements in various aspects of code-related tasks, as well as reasoning and general capabilities. Additionally, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 expands its support for programming languages from 86 to 338, while extending the context length from 16K to 128K. In standard benchmark evaluations, DeepSeek-Coder-V2 achieves superior performance compared to closed-source models such as GPT4-Turbo, Claude 3 Opus, and Gemini 1.5 Pro in coding and math benchmarks.


#### Iterative Refinement of Project-Level Code Context for Precise Code Generation with Compiler Feedback
+ [Submitted on 25 Mar 2024 (v1), last revised 11 Jun 2024 (this version, v3)]
+ Zhangqian Bi, Yao Wan, Zheng Wang, Hongyu Zhang, Batu Guan, Fangxin Lu, Zili Zhang, Yulei Sui, Hai Jin, Xuanhua Shi
+ Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable progress in automated code generation. Yet, LLM-generated code may contain errors in API usage, class, data structure, or missing project-specific information. As much of this project-specific context cannot fit into the prompts of LLMs, we must find ways to allow the model to explore the project-level code context. We present CoCoGen, a new code generation approach that uses compiler feedback to improve the LLM-generated code. CoCoGen first leverages static analysis to identify mismatches between the generated code and the project's context. It then iteratively aligns and fixes the identified errors using information extracted from the code repository. We integrate CoCoGen with two representative LLMs, i.e., GPT-3.5-Turbo and Code Llama (13B), and apply it to Python code generation. Experimental results show that CoCoGen significantly improves the vanilla LLMs by over 80% in generating code dependent on the project context and consistently outperforms the existing retrieval-based code generation baselines.


## More Readings: 


