---
title: LLM Alignment -  PPO   
lecture: W11.2-team6-PPO
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: 
video: team-6
tags:
- Customization
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- BasicLLM 
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Model serving Readings: 





## PPO Readings: 


#### a simple blogpost: Preference Tuning LLMs: PPO, DPO, GRPO — A Simple Guide
- [https://anukriti-ranjan.medium.com/preference-tuning-llms-ppo-dpo-grpo-a-simple-guide-135765c87090](https://anukriti-ranjan.medium.com/preference-tuning-llms-ppo-dpo-grpo-a-simple-guide-135765c87090)


#### A Comprehensive Survey of LLM Alignment Techniques: RLHF, RLAIF, PPO, DPO and More
+ [Submitted on 23 Jul 2024]
+ Zhichao Wang, Bin Bi, Shiva Kumar Pentyala, Kiran Ramnath, Sougata Chaudhuri, Shubham 
 Mehrotra, Zixu (James)Zhu, Xiang-Bo Mao, Sitaram Asur, Na (Claire)Cheng
+ With advancements in self-supervised learning, the availability of trillions tokens in a pre-training corpus, instruction fine-tuning, and the development of large Transformers with billions of parameters, large language models (LLMs) are now capable of generating factual and coherent responses to human queries. However, the mixed quality of training data can lead to the generation of undesired responses, presenting a significant challenge. Over the past two years, various methods have been proposed from different perspectives to enhance LLMs, particularly in aligning them with human expectation. Despite these efforts, there has not been a comprehensive survey paper that categorizes and details these approaches. In this work, we aim to address this gap by categorizing these papers into distinct topics and providing detailed explanations of each alignment method, thereby helping readers gain a thorough understanding of the current state of the field.

### OpenRLHF: An Easy-to-use, Scalable and High-performance RLHF Framework
+ [Submitted on 20 May 2024 (v1), last revised 24 Nov 2024 (this version, v4)]
+ Jian Hu, Xibin Wu, Zilin Zhu, Xianyu, Weixun Wang, Dehao Zhang, Yu Cao
+ As large language models (LLMs) continue to grow by scaling laws, reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has gained significant attention due to its outstanding performance. However, unlike pretraining or fine-tuning a single model, scaling reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) for training large language models poses coordination challenges across four models. We present OpenRLHF, an open-source framework enabling efficient RLHF scaling. Unlike existing RLHF frameworks that co-locate four models on the same GPUs, OpenRLHF re-designs scheduling for the models beyond 70B parameters using Ray, vLLM, and DeepSpeed, leveraging improved resource utilization and diverse training approaches. Integrating seamlessly with Hugging Face, OpenRLHF provides an out-of-the-box solution with optimized algorithms and launch scripts, which ensures user-friendliness. OpenRLHF implements RLHF, DPO, rejection sampling, and other alignment techniques. Empowering state-of-the-art LLM development, OpenRLHF's code is available at \url{this https URL}.




#### Towards a Unified View of Preference Learning for Large Language Models: A Survey
+ [Submitted on 4 Sep 2024 (v1), last revised 31 Oct 2024 (this version, v5)]
+ Bofei Gao, Feifan Song, Yibo Miao, Zefan Cai, Zhe Yang, Liang Chen, Helan Hu, Runxin Xu, Qingxiu Dong, Ce Zheng, Shanghaoran Quan, Wen Xiao, Ge Zhang, Daoguang Zan, Keming Lu, Bowen Yu, Dayiheng Liu, Zeyu Cui, Jian Yang, Lei Sha, Houfeng Wang, Zhifang Sui, Peiyi Wang, Tianyu Liu, Baobao Chang
+ Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit remarkably powerful capabilities. One of the crucial factors to achieve success is aligning the LLM's output with human preferences. This alignment process often requires only a small amount of data to efficiently enhance the LLM's performance. While effective, research in this area spans multiple domains, and the methods involved are relatively complex to understand. The relationships between different methods have been under-explored, limiting the development of the preference alignment. In light of this, we break down the existing popular alignment strategies into different components and provide a unified framework to study the current alignment strategies, thereby establishing connections among them. In this survey, we decompose all the strategies in preference learning into four components: model, data, feedback, and algorithm. This unified view offers an in-depth understanding of existing alignment algorithms and also opens up possibilities to synergize the strengths of different strategies. Furthermore, we present detailed working examples of prevalent existing algorithms to facilitate a comprehensive understanding for the readers. Finally, based on our unified perspective, we explore the challenges and future research directions for aligning large language models with human preferences.


#### Insights into Alignment: Evaluating DPO and its Variants Across Multiple Tasks
+ [Submitted on 23 Apr 2024 (v1), last revised 8 Feb 2025 (this version, v2)]
+ Amir Saeidi, Shivanshu Verma, Md Nayem Uddin, Chitta Baral
+ This study evaluates Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) and its variants for aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) with human preferences, testing three configurations: (1) with Supervised Fine Tuning (SFT), (2) without SFT, and (3) without SFT but using an instruction tuned model. We further investigate how training set size influences model performance. Our evaluation spans 13 benchmarks covering dialogue, reasoning, mathematical problem-solving, question answering, truthfulness, MT-Bench, Big Bench, and the Open LLM Leaderboard. We find that: (1) alignment methods often achieve near optimal performance even with smaller subsets of training data; (2) although they offer limited improvements on complex reasoning tasks, they enhance mathematical problem-solving; and (3) using an instruction tuned model improves truthfulness. These insights highlight the conditions under which alignment methods excel, as well as their limitations.


## More Readings: 



#### DeepSeek-R1: Incentivizing Reasoning Capability in LLMs via Reinforcement Learning
+ [Submitted on 22 Jan 2025]
+ DeepSeek-AI,  (100 additional authors not shown)
+ We introduce our first-generation reasoning models, DeepSeek-R1-Zero and DeepSeek-R1. DeepSeek-R1-Zero, a model trained via large-scale reinforcement learning (RL) without supervised fine-tuning (SFT) as a preliminary step, demonstrates remarkable reasoning capabilities. Through RL, DeepSeek-R1-Zero naturally emerges with numerous powerful and intriguing reasoning behaviors. However, it encounters challenges such as poor readability, and language mixing. To address these issues and further enhance reasoning performance, we introduce DeepSeek-R1, which incorporates multi-stage training and cold-start data before RL. DeepSeek-R1 achieves performance comparable to OpenAI-o1-1217 on reasoning tasks. To support the research community, we open-source DeepSeek-R1-Zero, DeepSeek-R1, and six dense models (1.5B, 7B, 8B, 14B, 32B, 70B) distilled from DeepSeek-R1 based on Qwen and Llama.
