---
title: More Model Serving Readings - SGlang + Chunked Prefill
lecture: W12.2-Model-Serving
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: team-6
video: team-6   
tags:
- 
desc: 2025-S4
term: 2025-seminarRead
categories:
- BasicLLM
---




In this session, our readings cover: 



##  Readings on Efficient Model Serving : 


#### SGLang: Efficient Execution of Structured Language Model Programs
+ [Submitted on 12 Dec 2023 (v1), last revised 6 Jun 2024 (this version, v2)]
+ SGLang: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2312.07104
+ Lianmin Zheng, Liangsheng Yin, Zhiqiang Xie, Chuyue Sun, Jeff Huang, Cody Hao Yu, Shiyi Cao, Christos Kozyrakis, Ion Stoica, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Clark Barrett, Ying Sheng
+ Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly used for complex tasks that require multiple generation calls, advanced prompting techniques, control flow, and structured inputs/outputs. However, efficient systems are lacking for programming and executing these applications. We introduce SGLang, a system for efficient execution of complex language model programs. SGLang consists of a frontend language and a runtime. The frontend simplifies programming with primitives for generation and parallelism control. The runtime accelerates execution with novel optimizations like RadixAttention for KV cache reuse and compressed finite state machines for faster structured output decoding. Experiments show that SGLang achieves up to 6.4x higher throughput compared to state-of-the-art inference systems on various large language and multi-modal models on tasks including agent control, logical reasoning, few-shot learning benchmarks, JSON decoding, retrieval-augmented generation pipelines, and multi-turn chat. The code is publicly available at this https URL


#### Taming Throughput-Latency Tradeoff in LLM Inference with Sarathi-Serve
+ Chunked Prefill: https://www.usenix.org/system/files/osdi24-agrawal.pdf
+ [Submitted on 4 Mar 2024 (v1), last revised 17 Jun 2024 (this version, v3)]
+ Amey Agrawal, Nitin Kedia, Ashish Panwar, Jayashree Mohan, Nipun Kwatra, Bhargav S. Gulavani, Alexey Tumanov, Ramachandran Ramjee
+ Each LLM serving request goes through two phases. The first is prefill which processes the entire input prompt and produces the first output token and the second is decode which generates the rest of output tokens, one-at-a-time. Prefill iterations have high latency but saturate GPU compute due to parallel processing of the input prompt. In contrast, decode iterations have low latency but also low compute utilization because a decode iteration processes only a single token per request. This makes batching highly effective for decodes and consequently for overall throughput. However, batching multiple requests leads to an interleaving of prefill and decode iterations which makes it challenging to achieve both high throughput and low latency.
We introduce an efficient LLM inference scheduler, Sarathi-Serve, to address this throughput-latency tradeoff. Sarathi-Serve introduces chunked-prefills which splits a prefill request into near equal sized chunks and creates stall-free schedules that adds new requests in a batch without pausing ongoing decodes. Stall-free scheduling unlocks the opportunity to improve throughput with large batch sizes while minimizing the effect of batching on latency. Furthermore, uniform batches in Sarathi-Serve ameliorate the imbalance between iterations resulting in minimal pipeline bubbles.
Our techniques yield significant improvements in inference performance across models and hardware under tail latency constraints. For Mistral-7B on single A100 GPUs, we achieve 2.6x higher serving capacity and up to 3.7x higher serving capacity for the Yi-34B model on two A100 GPUs as compared to vLLM. When used with pipeline parallelism on Falcon-180B, Sarathi-Serve provides up to 5.6x gain in the end-to-end serving capacity. The source code for Sarathi-Serve is available at this https URL.

## More Readings : 


#### Orca: A Distributed Serving System for Transformer-Based Generative Models
+ Continuous Batching: https://www.usenix.org/system/files/osdi22-yu.pdf
+ Gyeong-In Yu and Joo Seong Jeong, Seoul National University; Geon-Woo Kim, FriendliAI and Seoul National University; Soojeong Kim, FriendliAI; Byung-Gon Chun, FriendliAI and Seoul National University
+ Large-scale Transformer-based models trained for generation tasks (e.g., GPT-3) have recently attracted huge interest, emphasizing the need for system support for serving models in this family. Since these models generate a next token in an autoregressive manner, one has to run the model multiple times to process an inference request where each iteration of the model generates a single output token for the request. However, existing systems for inference serving do not perform well on this type of workload that has a multi-iteration characteristic, due to their inflexible scheduling mechanism that cannot change the current batch of requests being processed; requests that have finished earlier than other requests in a batch cannot return to the client, while newly arrived requests have to wait until the current batch completely finishes. In this paper, we propose iteration-level scheduling, a new scheduling mechanism that schedules execution at the granularity of iteration (instead of request) where the scheduler invokes the execution engine to run only a single iteration of the model on the batch. In addition, to apply batching and iteration-level scheduling to a Transformer model at the same time, we suggest selective batching, which applies batching only to a selected set of operations. Based on these two techniques, we have implemented a distributed serving system called ORCA, with additional designs for scalability to models with hundreds of billions of parameters. Our evaluation on a GPT-3 175B model shows that ORCA can significantly outperform NVIDIA FasterTransformer in terms of both latency and throughput: 36:9× throughput improvement at the same level of latency.



#### FlexGen: High-Throughput Generative Inference of Large Language Models with a Single GPU
+ FlexGen: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.06865
+[Submitted on 13 Mar 2023 (v1), last revised 12 Jun 2023 (this version, v2)]
+ Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Binhang Yuan, Zhuohan Li, Max Ryabinin, Daniel Y. Fu, Zhiqiang Xie, Beidi Chen, Clark Barrett, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Percy Liang, Christopher Ré, Ion Stoica, Ce Zhang
+ The high computational and memory requirements of large language model (LLM) inference make it feasible only with multiple high-end accelerators. Motivated by the emerging demand for latency-insensitive tasks with batched processing, this paper initiates the study of high-throughput LLM inference using limited resources, such as a single commodity GPU. We present FlexGen, a high-throughput generation engine for running LLMs with limited GPU memory. FlexGen can be flexibly configured under various hardware resource constraints by aggregating memory and computation from the GPU, CPU, and disk. By solving a linear programming problem, it searches for efficient patterns to store and access tensors. FlexGen further compresses the weights and the attention cache to 4 bits with negligible accuracy loss. These techniques enable FlexGen to have a larger space of batch size choices and thus significantly increase maximum throughput. As a result, when running OPT-175B on a single 16GB GPU, FlexGen achieves significantly higher throughput compared to state-of-the-art offloading systems, reaching a generation throughput of 1 token/s for the first time with an effective batch size of 144. On the HELM benchmark, FlexGen can benchmark a 30B model with a 16GB GPU on 7 representative sub-scenarios in 21 hours. The code is available at this https URL



#### Neo: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2411.01142
+ [Submitted on 2 Nov 2024]
+ NEO: Saving GPU Memory Crisis with CPU Offloading for Online LLM Inference
+ Xuanlin Jiang, Yang Zhou, Shiyi Cao, Ion Stoica, Minlan Yu
+ Online LLM inference powers many exciting applications such as intelligent chatbots and autonomous agents. Modern LLM inference engines widely rely on request batching to improve inference throughput, aiming to make it cost-efficient when running on expensive GPU accelerators. However, the limited GPU memory has largely limited the batch size achieved in practice, leaving significant GPU compute resources wasted. We present NEO, an online LLM inference system that offloads part of attention compute and KV cache states from the GPU to the local host CPU, effectively increasing the GPU batch size and thus inference throughput. To this end, NEO proposes asymmetric GPU-CPU pipelining and load-aware scheduling to balance GPU and CPU loads and fully utilize their compute and memory resources. We evaluate NEO on a wide range of workloads (i.e., code generation, text summarization), GPUs (i.e., T4, A10G, H100), and LLM models (i.e., 7B, 8B, 70B). NEO achieves up to 7.5×, 26%, and 14% higher throughput compared to GPU-only approach on T4, A10G, and H100 GPUs, respectively, while maintaining the same latency; with more powerful CPUs, NEO achieves up to 79.3% throughput gain on A10G GPU.



#### Shortest Job First: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.15792
+ [Submitted on 28 Aug 2024]
+ Efficient LLM Scheduling by Learning to Rank
+ Yichao Fu, Siqi Zhu, Runlong Su, Aurick Qiao, Ion Stoica, Hao Zhang
+ In Large Language Model (LLM) inference, the output length of an LLM request is typically regarded as not known a priori. Consequently, most LLM serving systems employ a simple First-come-first-serve (FCFS) scheduling strategy, leading to Head-Of-Line (HOL) blocking and reduced throughput and service quality. In this paper, we reexamine this assumption -- we show that, although predicting the exact generation length of each request is infeasible, it is possible to predict the relative ranks of output lengths in a batch of requests, using learning to rank. The ranking information offers valuable guidance for scheduling requests. Building on this insight, we develop a novel scheduler for LLM inference and serving that can approximate the shortest-job-first (SJF) schedule better than existing approaches. We integrate this scheduler with the state-of-the-art LLM serving system and show significant performance improvement in several important applications: 2.8x lower latency in chatbot serving and 6.5x higher throughput in synthetic data generation. Our code is available at this https URL

